[Doc] Add doc for math module (#6145)
taichi-dev/taichi: docs/lang/articles/math/math.md

# The math module

Taichi implements its own `math` module to support usual mathematical functions plus a few utility functions that are frequently used in computer graphics and simulations. They include:

> 1. Commonly-used mathematical functions that are analogous to those in Python's built-in `math` module.

Author: I'm afraid we should not use "identical" here.

> 1. Commonly-used mathematical functions that are analogous to those in Python's built-in `math` module.

Reviewer: What about "similar"? No difference between the two modules is mentioned in the following part.

> 1. Commonly-used mathematical functions that are analogous to those in Python's built-in `math` module.

Author: The main difference is Taichi's math functions should be called in the Taichi scope, and has different precisions due to the init config and backends.

> 2. Small vector and matrix types that are analogous to those in the [OpenGL shading language](https://www.khronos.org/opengl/wiki/OpenGL_Shading_Language)(GLSL).

Author: Same. We should use identical here.

ti.init()

@ti.kernel
def test():
    a = 1.0
    x = tm.sin(a)
    y = tm.floor(a)
    z = tm.degrees(a)
    w = tm.log2(a)
    ...
```

These functions also accept vectors and matrices as arguments, and they apply to them element-wise:

```python
@ti.kernel
def test():
    a = ti.Vector([1.0, 2.0, 3.0])
    x = tm.sin(a)  # [0.841471, 0.909297, 0.141120]
    y = tm.floor(a)  #  [1.000000, 2.000000, 3.000000]
    z = tm.degrees(a)  #  [57.295780, 114.591560, 171.887344]
    b = ti.Vector([2.0, 3.0, 4.0])
    w = tm.atan2(b, a)  # [1.107149, 0.982794, 0.927295]
    ...
```

## Small vector and matrix types

Taichi's math module supplies a few small vector and matrix types:

1. `vec2/vec3/vec4` for 2D/3D/4D floating-point vector types.
2. `ivec2/ivec3/ivec4` for 2D/3D/4D integer vector types.
3. `uvec2/uvec3/uvec4` for 2D/3D/4D unsigned integer vector types.
4. `mat2/mat3/mat4` for 2D/3D/4D floating-point square matrix types.

Indeed, these vector/matrix types are created using the two template functions `ti.types.vector()` and `ti.types.matrix()`. For example the `vec2` type is defined in the following way:

```python
vec2 = ti.types.vector(2, float)
```

> The number of precision bits of these matrix types will be determined by `default_fp` and `default_ip` in your `ti.init()` call. For example, if `ti.init(default_fp=ti.f64)` is called, then the types `vec2/vec3/vec4` and `mat2/mat3/mat4` will all have 64-bit floating-point precision.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The number of precision bits of such a type is determined by `default_fp` or `default_ip` in `ti.init()`. For example, if `ti.init(default_fp=ti.f64)` is called, then `vec2/vec3/vec4` and `mat2/mat3/mat4` defined in the Taichi scope all have 64-bit floating-point precision.
```

> # The math module

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Math Module
```

```python
mat2 = ti.math.mat2
vec3 = ti.math.mat3
vec4 = ti.math.vec4

m = mat2(1)  # [[1., 1.], [1., 1.]]
m = mat2(1, 2, 3, 4)  # [[1., 2.], [3, 4.]]
m = mat2([1, 2], [3, 4])  # [[1., 2.], [3, 4.]]
m = mat2([1, 2, 3, 4])  # [[1., 2.], [3, 4.]]
v = vec3(1, 2, 3)
m = mat2(v, 4)  # [[1., 2.], [3, 4.]]
u = vec4([1, 2], [3, 4])
u = vec4(v, 4.0)
```

Another important feature of vector types created by `ti.types.vector()` is that they support **vector swizzling** like GLSL vectors, this means you can use `xyzw`, `rgba`, `stpq` to access their elements with indices less or equal to four:

```python
v = ti.math.vec4(1, 2, 3, 4)
u = v.xyz  # vec3(1, 2, 3)
u = v.xxx  # vec3(1, 1, 1)
u = v.wzyx  # vec4(4, 3, 2, 1)
u = v.rraa  # vec4(1, 1, 2, 2)
```

### Relationship between `ti.Vector`, `ti.types.vector` and `ti.math.vec3`

+ `ti.Vector` is a function that accepts a 1D array and returns a matrix instance that has only one column. For example, `ti.Vector([1, 2, 3, 4, 5])`.

> + `ti.types.vector` is a function that accepts an integer and a primitive type, and returns a vector type. For example: `vec5f = ti.types.vector(5, float)`. `vec5f` can be used to instantiate 5D vectors or annotate data types in function arguments and struct members:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+ `ti.types.vector` is a function that accepts an integer and a primitive type, and returns a vector type. For example: `vec5f = ti.types.vector(5, float)`. `vec5f` can then be used to instantiate 5D vectors or annotate data types in function arguments and struct members:
```

    ```python
    @ti.kernel
    def test(v: vec5f):
        print(v.xyz)
    ```

>     Unlike `ti.Vector`, whose input data must be a 1d array as inputs, vector types created by `ti.types.vector()` have more flexible initialization routines, as we have already explained above.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Unlike `ti.Vector`, whose input data must be a 1D array, vector types created by `ti.types.vector()` have more flexible ways to initialize, as explained above.
```

> + `ti.math.vec3` is created by `vec3 = ti.types.vector(3, float)`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+ `ti.math.vec3` is simply created by `vec3 = ti.types.vector(3, float)`.
```

## GLSL-standard functions

> Taichi's math module also supports a few [GLSL standard functions](https://registry.khronos.org/OpenGL-Refpages/gl4/index.php), they are implemented in the way that follows the GLSL standard, except that they accept arbitrary vectors and matrices as arguments, and apply to them element-wise. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Taichi's math module also supports a few [GLSL standard functions](https://registry.khronos.org/OpenGL-Refpages/gl4/index.php). These functions follow the GLSL standard, except that they accept arbitrary vectors and matrices as arguments and operate on them element-wise. For example:
```

Please check if I tempered with the intended meaning.

```python
import taichi as ti
import taichi.math as tm

@ti.kernel
def example():
    v = tm.vec3(0., 1., 2.)
    w = tm.smoothstep(0.0, 1.0, v)
    w = tm.clamp(w, 0.2, 0.8)
    w = tm.reflect(v, tm.normalize(tm.vec3(1)))
```

:::note

Texture support in Taichi is implemented in the `ti.types.texture_types` module.

:::

> ## Complex number arithmetic

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Complex number operations
```
Correct?

> Taichi's math module also supports basic complex arithmetic in the form of 2D vectors.

Reviewer 2: complex arithmetric -> complex operations?

> You can use a 2D vector of type `ti.math.vec2` to represent a complex number, the addtion/subtraction of complex numbers are just addtion/subtraction of 2D vectors, and multiplication and division can be performed by calling the two functions `ti.math.cmul` and `ti.math.cdiv`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use a 2D vector of type `ti.math.vec2` to represent a complex number, the addtion/subtraction of complex numbers are just addtion/subtraction of 2D vectors, and multiplication and division can be performed by calling `ti.math.cmul` and `ti.math.cdiv`:
```
Shall we use `ti.math.cmul()` and `ti.math.cdiv()`?
